# Package layout

This document describes the technical details of a Nyssa package.

### Layout

The default layout for Nyssa package when generated by `nyssa init` is as 
follows:

- `.blade`: The default Blade pacakges directory which contains 
  installed packages and will only be available when at least one 
  or more package is installed.
- `app`: The directory contains the main application/package code.
- `examples`: Examples accompanying your package goes here and _may_
  be shown to users under the `Examples` section of the Nyssa website.
- `index.b`: The default Blade package index file.
- `README.md`: The README.md file will be contain the main documentation 
  for your package.
  > **NOTE:**
  > If your packages adheres to Blade standard multiline comment 
  > documentation format as shown in the Blade standard library 
  > documentation, your package documentation _may_ be expanded to include
  > such documentations.
- `nyssa.json`: The Nyssa package configuration script.
- `tests`: This directory contains unit, integration and all types 
  of tests for your package.

**!Important**

You can create a Nyssa package without having to run `nyssa init`. Essentially,
the only files required are the `index.b` and the `nyssa.json` files and they
can be manually created without losing Nyssa's ability to install, uninstall
and configure packages.


### `nyssa.json`

The `nyssa.json` file is pretty intuitive and is very similar to NodeJS NPM
package.json files. A typical sample of a complete `nyssa.json` file looks like this:

```json
{
  "name": "sample", 
  "version": "0.1.0", 
  "description": "An example package", 
  "homepage": "", 
  "tags": [
    "tag1",
    "tag2",
    "tag3"
  ], 
  "author": "Package Author <someone@example.com>", 
  "license": "MIT", 
  "sources": [
    "nyssa.bladelang.com"
  ],
  "deps": {
    "dependecny1": "1.0.0",
    "dependecny2": "1.0.0",
    "dependecny3": "1.0.0"
  },
  "post_install": "post-install-script.b",
  "pre_uninstall": "pre-uninstall-script.b"
}
```



